
Destroying Objects

-Java provides a garbage collector to automatically look for objects that aren’t needed anymore.
-All Java objects are stored in your program memory’s heap. The heap, which is also referred to as the free store, 
represents a large pool of unused memory allocated to your Java application. 



Garbage Collection
-Garbage collection refers to the process of automatically freeing memory on the heap by 
deleting objects that are no longer reachable in your program
-Java provides a method called System.gc(). But Java is free to ignore the request.
-An object will remain on the heap until it is no longer reachable. An object is no longer
reachable when one of two situations occurs:
1.The object no longer has any references pointing to it.
2.All references to the object have gone out of scope eg. end of method ends the scope of local variables.



Objects vs. References

Reference
Do not confuse a reference with the object that it refers to; they are two different entities. The reference is a variable that has a name and can be used to access the contents
of an object. A reference can be assigned to another reference, passed to a method, or
returned from a method. All references are the same size, no matter what their type is.

Object
An object sits on the heap and does not have a name. Therefore, you have no way to
access an object except through a reference. Objects come in all different shapes and
sizes and consume varying amounts of memory. An object cannot be assigned to another
object, nor can an object be passed to a method or returned from a method. It is the
object that gets garbage collected, not its reference. 



finalize()
Java allows objects to IMPLEMENT a method called finalize() that might get called. This
method gets called if the garbage collector tries to collect the object. If the garbage collector
doesn’t run, the method doesn’t get called. If the garbage collector fails to collect the object
and tries to run it again later, the method doesn’t get called a second time
-it might not get called and that it definitely won’t be called twice.
-finalize() is only run when the object is eligible for garbage collection.





